The general intuition is that pushes become syncs; visibility edges
become lwsyncs; and execution edges become either control-isyncs, or
data or address dependencies.  There are some subtleties though.
Ignoring read-modify-writes, the algorithm is as follows:

1. Take the transitive closure of the visibility edges, and take the
    transitive closure of the execution edges.
2. Discard any edges involving a nop.
3. For all triples of the form i -vo-> push -xo/vo-> i', create a push
    edge i -push-> i'.  (These exist in the algorithm only, not in the
    theory.)
4. Discard any edges involving a push.
5. Insert synchronization into the code such that:

    a. Every push edge is cut by a sync.
    b. Every W->W and R->W visibility edge is cut by a sync or lwsync.
    c. Every R->R edge is cut by a sync, lwsync,
       control-isync, or data/address dependency.
    d. Every R->W and execution edge is cut by a sync, lwsync,
       control-isync, data/address dependency, or control dependency.

    Doing so is interesting, particularly when edges cross from one
    basic block to another.

    Also, the execution stuff is a good deal trickier than that
    because of edges across loops. (And there are /always/ edges
    across loops, because the function will get called again!)

    Note that:

    a. R->R visibility edges have no more force than execution (other
       than transitive implications).
    b. W->R visibility and execution edges, and W->W execution edges,
       are discarded (after transitive closure).
    c. Pushes without both a visibility predecessor and a
       visibility/execution successor are discarded.


--
pre and post edges we will just add the stuff and then try to notice it.

honestly maybe that's what we should do for push also? although, won't
actually be hard to do push right, but maybe not worth the state space
blowup.

Should be a little careful because probably a common idiom will be:
  L(push, PUSH); VEDGE(pre, push); XEDGE(push, post);
and we should just generate a single sync in place and not do dumb things.

It will be common because I'll probably write a macro for it, so...

Will actually need special handling of pre/push to posts even just for
correctness!



--
I sort of dislike inserting all these barriers so early. I feel like
it might inhibit llvm more than we want.
